Building the AST (#64)
chhoumann/p4: Report/sections/3_implementation/astbuilder.tex

            
            foreach (IParseTree parseTree in parseTrees) |\label{line:ParseForeach}|
            {
                DazelParser.GameObjectContext gameObjectContext = parseTree.GetChild(0) as DazelParser.GameObjectContext; |\label{line:GetParseChild}|
                GameObjectNode gameObjectNode = VisitGameObject(gameObjectContext); |\label{line:VisitGO}|
                
                gameObjects.Add(gameObjectNode.Identifier, gameObjectNode); |\label{line:ASTToDict}|
            }

            RootNode root = new RootNode() |\label{line:newRoot}|
            {
                GameObjects = gameObjects
            };
            
            return new AbstractSyntaxTree(root); |\label{line:CombinedAST}|
        }
\end{lstlisting}

At the root of every parse tree is a \textbf{GameObject}. A \textbf{GameObject} in \dazel{} specifies an object, which content should be displayed inside the game in the final output. Each \textbf{GameObject} represents a text file that contains source code to be compiled. This means that there could be multiple text files, each specifying some content for the final output and therefore multiple parse trees. 

> The consequence of this structure is that the compiler has to build an AST for each of the parse trees and finally produce a single AST by combining them with a single root. On line \ref{line:ParseForeach} in the foreach loop, is where the process of visiting each parse tree starts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consequence of this structure is that the compiler has to build an AST for each of the parse trees and finally produce a single AST by combining them with a single root. On line \ref{line:ParseForeach}, in the foreach loop, is where the process of visiting each parse tree starts. 
```

The intial step of each iteration is to find and store each parse in a variable called \textbf{gameObjectContext}. The root of every parse tree is a \textbf{GameObject} which is the first child of every tree. This process can be seen on line \ref{line:ParseForeach} through the \texttt{parseTree.GetChild(0)} method call.
Once the \textbf{GameObject} has been assigned to \textbf{gameObjectContext} the visitor is called on that given \textbf{gameObject} on line \ref{line:VisitGO} and an AST is produced. 

> In order to maintain the AST's for each iteration, we add them to a dictionary which can be seen on line \ref{line:ASTToDict}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to maintain the ASTs for each iteration, we add them to a dictionary which can be seen on line \ref{line:ASTToDict}. 
```

\begin{lstlisting}[caption={The initial stage of visiting}, label={lst:VisitParseTree},escapechar=|]
    public GameObjectNode VisitGameObject(DazelParser.GameObjectContext context)
    {
        GameObjectTypeNode typeNode;
        
        switch (context.gameObjectType.Type) |\label{line:PatternMatch}|
        {
            case DazelLexer.SCREEN:
                typeNode = new ScreenNode();
                break;
            case DazelLexer.ENTITY:
                typeNode = new EntityNode();
                break;
            case DazelLexer.MOVE_PATTERN:
                typeNode = new MovePatternNode();
                break;
            default:
                throw new ArgumentException("Type is not a GameObjectType!");
        }

        GameObjectNode gameObjectNode = new GameObjectNode() |\label{line:NewGONode}|
        {
            Identifier = context.GetChild(1).GetText(),
            TypeNode = typeNode,
            Contents = VisitGameObjectContents(context.gameObjectBlock().gameObjectContents()) |\label{line:VisitGameObjectContents}|
        };
        
        return gameObjectNode;
    }
\end{lstlisting}

> Durings visitation of the parse tree the visitor will reduce the parse tree to an AST. It does this by skipping all none terminal nodes and only constructing the AST of terminal nodes. An example of this can be seen in \snipref{lst:VisitAssignment}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Durings visitation of the parse tree the visitor will reduce the parse tree to an AST. It does this by skipping all nonterminal nodes and only constructing the AST of terminal nodes. An example of this can be seen in \snipref{lst:VisitAssignment}. 
```

\begin{lstlisting}[caption={Visit assignment}, label={lst:VisitAssignment},escapechar=|]
    public StatementExpressionNode VisitAssignment(DazelParser.AssignmentContext context)
    {
        return new AssignmentNode()
        {
            Identifier = context.IDENTIFIER().GetText(), |\label{line:GetId}|
            Expression = VisitExpression(context.expression()) |\label{line:VisitExpr}|
        };
    }
\end{lstlisting}

The strategy for all the rest of the visitor methods follow the same mode of logic, where if a terminal node has been found, it is saved and if a non terminal node has been found, it continues to visit the parse tree until it finds all the terminal nodes in the tree.

> Following the construction if the AST the semantic analysis of the compiler can begin, which consists of type checking, scope checking as well as the evaluation of expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the construction if the AST the semantic analysis of the compiler can begin, which consists of type checking and scope checking.
```
